=Project Requirements=

===Information===

This project is part of my Bachelor Thesis. You could find and download it [http://android-bluetooth-touchpad.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/%20android-bluetooth-touchpad/BTTouchpad/thesis/ here]. I will direct you to it whenever more information is needed.

== 1. Android device: ==

  * Android version *2.1 and later*
  * *ROOT*, See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rooting_(Android_OS) 
  * *Unmodified Bluetooth stack* Some manufacturers modify the Bluetooth stack in Android, so the framework will not work there. Ex. HTC Desire has proven not to work!
  
The framework was successfully tested on *Google Nexus One*.

== 2. Host: ==

  * *Computer running Linux OS.* The framework was tested on Ubuntu, but other Linux distributions should also work. It is important they use the BlueZ Bluetooth Stack. 
  * If running Ubuntu it is recommended you install *Blueman* - Bluetooth utility for Ubuntu with nice GUI. (_sudo apt-get install blueman_)
  * Windows will not work! And this is very unlikely to change. Check the [http://android-bluetooth-touchpad.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/%20android-bluetooth-touchpad/BTTouchpad/thesis/ THESIS], section 5.7. 

==3. Skills:==
  * Good Android development skills are required. This is not the place to start learning Android.
  * Good understanding of the Bluetooth stack, HID and SDP is highly recommended. You could read chapter 2, 3 and 4 in the [http://android-bluetooth-touchpad.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/%20android-bluetooth-touchpad/BTTouchpad/thesis/ THESIS].
  


 
   